.PU
.ds nm \fBopensc-explorer\fR
.TH opensc-explorer 1 "September 3, 2002" "" OpenSC
.SH NAME
opensc-explorer \- generic interactive utility for accessing smart card and similar security token functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(nm
.RI [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(nm utility can be used interactively to perform
miscellaneous operations such as exploring the 
contents of or sending arbitrary APDU commands to a 
smart card or similar security token.
.SH OPTIONS
The following are the command\-line options for \*(nm.  There
are additional interactive commands available once it is running.
.PP
.TP
.BR "\-\-reader " \fInum\fP ", \-r " \fInum\fP
Use the given reader number.  The default is 0, the first reader
in the system.
.TP
.BR "\-\-card\-driver " \fIdriver\fP ", \-D " \fIdriver\fP
Use the given card driver.  The default is auto-detected.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose ", " \-v
Causes \*(nm to be more verbose. Specify this flag several times
to enable debug output in the opensc library.
.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are supported at the \*(nm interactive prompt.
.PP
.TP
.BR ls
list all files in the current DF
.TP
.BR "cd \fIfile\-id\fP"
change to another DF specified by \fIfile\-id\fP
.TP
.BR cat
print the contents of the currently selected EF
.TP
.BR "info [\fIfile\-id\fP]"
display attributes of a file specified by \fIfile\-id\fP.  
If \fIfile\-id\fP is not supplied, the attributes of the 
current file are printed.
.TP
.BR "create \fIfile\-id\fP \fIsize\fP"
create a new EF.  \fIfile\-id\fP specifies the
id number and \fIsize\fP is the size of the new file.
.TP
.BR "delete \fIfile\-id\fP"
remove the EF or DF specified by \fIfile\-id\fP.
.TP
.BR "verify \fIkey\-type\fP\fIkey\-id\fP [\fIkey\fP]"
present a PIN or key to the card.  
Where \fIkey\-type\fP can be one of CHV, KEY or PRO.  
\fIkey\-id\fP is a number representing the key or PIN number.
\fIkey\fP is the key or PIN to be verified in hex.
.PP
Example: verify CHV0 31:32:33:34:00:00:00:00
.TP
.BR "change CHV\fIid\fP [\fIold\-pin\fP] \fInew\-pin\fP"
change a PIN
.PP
Example: change CHV0 31:32:33:34:00:00:00:00 'secret'
.TP
.BR "put \fIfile\-id\fP [\fIinput\fP]"
copy a local file to the card.  
The local file is specified by \fIinput\fP while the
card file is specified by \fIfile\-id\fP.
.TP
.BR "get \fIfile\-id\fP [\fIoutput\fP]"
copy an EF to a local file.
The local file is specified by \fIoutput\fP while the
card file is specified by \fIfile\-id\fP.
.TP
.BR "mkdir \fIfile\-id\fP \fIsize\fP"
create a DF.  \fIfile\-id\fP specifies the
id number and \fIsize\fP is the size of the new file.
.TP
.BR pksign
create a public key signature.  NOTE: This command is 
currently not implemented.
.TP
.BR pkdecrypt
perform a public key decryption.  NOTE: This command is
currently not implemented.
.TP
.BR erase
erase the card, if the card supports it.
.TP
.BR "debug [\fIlevel\fP]"
get or set the debug level
.TP
.BR quit
exit the program

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR opensc (7),
.BR opensc-tool (1)
.SH AUTHORS
\*(nm was written by Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@iki.fi>.
This manpage was contributed by Joe Phillips <joe.phillips@innovationsw.com>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
