.PU
.ds nm \fBopensc\fR
.TH opensc 7 "September 3, 2002" "" OpenSC
.SH NAME
opensc \- Smart Card library and applications with support for PKCS #15 compatible smart cards and similar security tokens
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(nm project aims to provide a set of libraries and programs
for manipulating smart cards.  The \*(nm utilities and libraries
can be used with ISO 7816\-4 compatible cards providing basic,
ISO filesystem manipulation.  The primary goal of \*(nm, however, 
is to support cryptographic functionality made possible by PKCS #15
compatible cards.  
.PP
Functionality includes PIN\-protected, on\-card private 
and public key storage, message signing/verification and key generation.
.PP
\*(nm libraries are built on top of PC/SC\-lite middleware and can
use any reader devices supported by it.
.SH OTHER FEATURES
PAM library.
.br
OpenSSH integration.
.br
PKCS #11 integration.
.SH SUPPORTED CARDS
.TP
As of this writing, \*(nm is known to support the following PKCS #15 compatible cards.
.br
Finnish FINEID (SetCOS)
.br
Swedish Posten eID (SetCOS)
.br
Schlumberger Cryptoflex 16k and 8k
.br
Gemplus GPK 4000, 8000 and 16000
.br
MioCOS 1.1
.br
TCOS 2.0
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR opensc-tool (1),
.BR opensc-explorer (1),
.BR opensc-config (1),
.BR pkcs15 (7),
.BR pkcs15-init (1),
.BR pkcs15-tool (1),
.BR pkcs15-crypt (1),
.BR cryptoflex-tool (1),
.BR http://www.opensc.org
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was contributed by Joe Phillips <joe.phillips@innovationsw.com>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
