.PU
.ds nm \fBopensc-tool\fR
.TH opensc-tool 1 "September 3, 2002" "" OpenSC
.SH NAME
opensc-tool \- generic smart card utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(nm
.RI [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(nm utility can be used from the command line to perform
miscellaneous smart card operations such as getting the card
ATR or sending arbitrary APDU commands to a card.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-atr ", " \-a
Print the Answer To Reset (ATR) of the card, output is in hex byte
format
.TP
.BR "\-\-send\-apdu " \fIapdu\fP ", \-s " \fIapdu\fP
Sends an arbitrary APDU to the card in the format AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF...
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-files ", " \-f
Recursively lists all files stored on card
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-readers ", " \-l
Lists all configured readers
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-drivers ", " \-D
Lists all installed card drivers
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-rdrivers ", " \-R
Lists all installed reader drivers
.TP
.BR "\-\-reader " \fInum\fP ", \-r " \fInum\fP
Use the given reader number.  The default is 0, the first reader
in the system.
.TP
.BR "\-\-card\-driver " \fIdriver\fP ", \-c " \fIdriver\fP
Use the given card driver.  The default is auto-detected.
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet ", " \-q
Quiet operation
.TP
.BR \-\-debug ", " \-d
Print debug output.  This option may be supplied many times each
increasing the verbosity of debug messages.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR opensc (7),
.BR opensc-explorer (1)
.SH AUTHORS
\*(nm was written by Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@iki.fi>.
This manpage was contributed by Joe Phillips <joe.phillips@innovationsw.com>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
