.PU
.ds nm \fBopensc-config\fR
.TH opensc-config 1 "September 4, 2002" "" OpenSC
.SH NAME
opensc-config \- a tool to get information about the installed version of OpenSC
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(nm
.RI [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(nm is a tool that is used to get various information about the installed
version of OpenSC.  It is particularly useful in determining
compiler and linker flags necessary to build programs with the
OpenSC libraries.
.SH OPTIONS
\*(nm accepts the following options:
.PP
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print the installed version of OpenSC to standard output.
.TP
.BR \-\-libs
Print the linker flags that are needed to compile a program
to use the OpenSC libraries.
.TP
.BR \-\-cflags
Print the compiler flags that are needed to compile a program
to use the OpenSC libraries.
.TP
.BR \-\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the  installation  
prefix that OpenSC was built with when computing  the  
output  for  the  --cflags  and   --libs
options.  This  option  is  also used for the exec
prefix if --exec-prefix was  not  specified.  This
option  must  be  specified  before  any --libs or
--cflags options.
.TP
.BR \-\-exec\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the  installation  
exec  prefix  that OpenSC was built with when
computing the output for the --cflags  and  --libs
options.  This option must be specified before any
--libs or --cflags options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR opensc (7)
.SH AUTHORS
\*(nm was written by Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@iki.fi>.
This manpage was contributed by Joe Phillips <joe.phillips@innovationsw.com>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
