.PU
.ds nm \fBpkcs15-init\fR
.TH pkcs15-init 1 "" "" OpenSC
.SH NAME
pkcs15-init \- smart card personalization utility
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(nm(1) utility can be used to create a PKCS #15
structure on a smart card, and add key or certificate
objects. Details of the structure that will be created
are controlled via profiles.
.PP
The profile used by default is \fBpkcs15\fR. Alternative
profiles can be specified via the \fB-p\fR switch.
.SH PIN Usage
.B pkcs15-init
can be used to create a PKCS #15 structure on your smart card,
create PINs, and install keys and certificates on the card.
This process is also called \fIpersonalization\fP.
.PP
An OpenSC card can have one security officer PIN, and zero or
more user PINs. PIN stands for Personal Identification Number,
and is a secret code you need to present to the card before
being allowed to perform certain operations, such as using
one of the stored RSA keys to sign a document, or modifying
the card itself.
.PP
Usually, PINs are a sequence of decimal digits, but some cards will
accept arbitrary ASCII characters. Be aware however that using
characters other than digits will make the card unusable with PIN pad
readers, because those usually have keys for entering digits only.
.PP
The security officer (SO) PIN is special; it is used to protect
meta data information on the card, such as the PKCS #15 structure
itself.  Setting the SO PIN is optional, because the worst that can
usually happen is that someone finding your card can mess it up.
To extract any of your secret keys stored on the card, an attacker
will still need your user PIN, at least for the default OpenSC profiles.
However, it is possible to create card profiles that will allow the
security officer to override user PINs.
.PP
For each PIN, you can specify a PUK (also called
\fIunblock PIN\fP). The PUK can be used to overwrite or unlock
a PIN if too many incorrect values have been entered in a row.
.SH MODES OF OPERATION
.SS Initialization
This is the first step during card personalization, and
will create the basic files on the card.
To create the initial PKCS #15 structure, invoke the utility as
.PP
.B "   pkcs15-init --create-pkcs15
.PP
You will then be asked for several the security officer PIN and PUK.
Simply pressing return at the SO PIN prompt will skip installation
of an SO PIN.
.PP
If the card supports it, you can also request that the card is erased
prior to creating the PKCS #15 structure, by specifying the
.B --erase-card
option.
.SS User PIN Installation
Before installing any user objects such as private keys, you need
at least one PIN to protect these objects. you can do this using
.PP
.BI "   pkcs15-init --store-pin --auth-id " nn
.PP
where \fInn\fP is a PKCS #15 ID in hexadecimal notation. Common values 
are \fB01\fP, \fB02\fP, etc.
.PP
Entering the command above will ask you for the user's PIN and PUK.
If you do not wish to install an unblock PIN, simply press return
at the PUK prompt.
.PP
To set a label for this PIN object (which can be used by applications
to display a meaningful prompt to the user), use the
\fB--label\fP command line option.
.SS Key Generation
\*(nm lets you generate a new key and store it on the card.
You can do this using:
.PP
.BI "   pkcs15-init --generate-key " keyspec " --auth-id " nn
.PP
where
.I keyspec
describes the algorithm and length of the key to be created,
such as
.BR rsa/512 .
This will create a 512 bit RSA key. Currently, only RSA key
generation is supported. Note that cards usually support just
a few different key lengths. Almost all cards will support
512 and 1024 bit keys, some will support 768 or 2048 as well.
.PP
\fInn\fP is the ID of a user PIN installed previously, e.g. \fB01\fP.
.PP
In addition to storing the private portion of the key on the
card, \*(nm will also store the the public portion of the key
as a PKCS #15 public key object.
.PP
By default, \*(nm will try to use the card's on-board key
generation facilities, if available. If the card does not
support on-board key generation, \*(nm will fall back to
software key generation.
.SS Private Key Download
You can use a private key generated by other means and download
it to the card. For instance, to download a private key contained
in a file named
.B okir.pem ,
which is in PEM format, you would use
.PP
.B  "    pkcs15-init --store-private-key okir.pem --id 45 --auth-id 01
.PP
If the key is protected by a pass phrase, \*(nm will prompt
you for a pass phrase to unlock the key.
.PP
In addition to storing the private portion of the key on the
card, \*(nm will also store the the public portion of the key
as a PKCS #15 public key object.
.PP
Note the use of the
.B --id
option. The current
.B pkcs15
profile defines two key templates, one for authentication (key ID 45),
and one for non-repudiation purposes (key ID 46). Other key
templates will probably be added in the future. Note that you don't
specify a key ID, \*(nm will pick just the first key template
defined by the profile.
.PP
In addition to the PEM key file format, \*(nm also supports DER encoded
keys, and PKCS #12 files. The latter is the file format used by
Netscape Navigator (among others) when exporting certificates to
a file. A PKCS #12 file usually contains the X.509 certificate
corresponding to the private key. If that is the case,
\*(nm will store the certificate instead of the public key portion.
.SS Public Key Download
You can also download individual public keys to the card using
the
.B \-\-store-public-key
option, which takes a filename as an argument. This file is supposed
to contain the public key. If you don't specify a key file format
using the
.B \-\-format
option, \*(nm will assume PEM format.
The only other supported public key file format is DER.
.PP
Since the corresponding public keys are always downloaded
automatically when generating a new key, or when downloading a
private key, you will probably use this option only very rarely.
.SS Certificate Download
You can download certificates to the card using the
.B \-\-store-certificate
option, which takes a filename as an argument. This file is supposed
to contain the DER encoded X.509 certificate.
.SS Downloading PKCS #12 bags
Most browsers nowadays use PKCS #12 format files when you ask them to
export your key and certificate to a file. \*(nm is capable of parsing
these files, and storing their contents on the card in a single operation.
This works just like storing a private key, except that you need to
specify the file format:
.PP
.nf
.BI "   pkcs15-init --store-private-key okir.p12 --format pkcs12
.BI "             --auth-id 01
.fi
This will install the private key contained in the file \fBokir.p12\fP,
and protected it with the PIN referenced by authentication ID \fB01\fP.
It will also store any X.509 certificates contained in the file,
which is usually the user certificate that goes with the key,
as well as the CA certificate.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-profile " \fIname\fP, " \-p " \fIname\fP"
Tells \*(nm to load the specified general profile. Currently, the
only application profile defined is
.BR pkcs15 ,
but you can write your own profiles and specify them using this
option.
.IP
The profile name can be combined with one or more \fIprofile options\fP,
which slightly modify the profile's behavior. For instance, the
default OpenSC profile supports the \fBopenpin\fP option, which
installs a single PIN during card initialization. This PIN is then
used both as the SO PIN as well as the user PIN for all keys stored
on the card.
.IP
Profile name and options are separated by a \fB+\fP character,
as in \fBpkcs15+onepin\fP.
.TP
.BR \-\-card-profile " \fIname\fP, " \-c " \fIname\fP"
Tells \*(nm to load the specified card profile option.
You will rarely need this option.
.TP
.BR \-\-create-pkcs15 ", " \-C
This tells \*(nm to create a PKCS #15 structure on the card, and
initialize any PINs.
.TP
.BR \-\-erase-card ", " \-E
This will erase the card prior to creating the PKCS #15 structure,
if the card supports it. If the card does not support erasing,
\*(nm will fail.
.TP
.BR \-\-generate-key " \fIkeyspec\fP, " \-G " \fIkeyspec\fP
Tells the card to generate new key and store it on the card.
.I keyspec
consists of an algorithm name (currently, the only supported
name is
.BR RSA ),
optionally followed by a slash and the length of the key in bits.
It is a good idea to specify the key ID along with this
command, using the
.BR \-\-id " option.
.TP
.BR \-\-store-private-key " \fIfilename\fP, " -S " \fIfilename\fP"
Tells \*(nm to download the specified private key to the card.
This command will also create a public key object containing
the public key portion.
By default, the file is assumed to contain the key in PEM format.
Alternative formats can be specified using
.BR \-\-format .
It is a good idea to specify the key ID along with this
command, using the
.BR \-\-id " option.
.TP
.BR \-\-store-public-key " \fIfilename\fP, " -P " \fIfilename\fP"
Tells \*(nm to download the specified public key to the card
and create a public key object with the key ID specified via the
.BR \-\-id " option.
By default, the file is assumed to contain the key in PEM format.
Alternative formats can be specified using
.BR \-\-format .
.TP
.BR \-\-store-certificate " \fIfilename\fX, " -P " \fIfilename\fP"
Tells \*(nm to store the certificate given in
.I filename
on the card, creating a certificate object with the ID specified
via the 
.BR \-\-id " option. The file is assumed to contain the
DER encoded certificate.
.TP
.BR \-\-so-pin ", " \-\-so-puk ", " \-\-pin ", " \-\-puk
These options can be used to specify PIN/PUK values on the
command line. Note that on most operation systems, any
user can display the command line of any process on the
system using utilities such as
.BR ps (1).
Therefore, you should use these options only on a secured
system, or in an options file specified with
.BR \-\-options-file .
.TP
.BR \-\-passphrase
When downloading a private key,
this option can be used to specify the pass phrase to unlock
the private key. The same caveat applies here as in the
case of the
.B \-\-pin
options.
.TP
.BI \-\-options-file " filename"
Tells \*(nm to read additional options from
.IR filename .
The file is supposed to contain one long option per line, without
the leading dashes, for instance:
.IP
.nf
  pin          frank
  puk          zappa
.fi
.PP
You can specify
.B \-\-options-file
several times.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose ", " \-v
Causes \*(nm to be more verbose. Specify this flag several times
to enable debug output in the opensc library.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pkcs15-profile (5) .
.SH BUGS
This manual page is usually out of date. Please cross-check options
using the \fB--help\fP option.
.SH AUTHORS
\*(nm was written by Olaf Kirch <okir@lst.de>
